we know weather is unpredictable and
extreme events have always occurred we
also know these events are becoming more
severe and more common and yes these
ships are down to climate change so
what's the science behind all this let's
start with greenhouse gases as you
probably know these are released when we
do things like burn fossil fuels when
this happens it becomes trapped near the
Earth's surface making it hotter here on
land and in the ocean of course this
means more evaporation more water vapor
in the air and more heavy rainfall some
places get less some places get more but
when it rains you can pull while all
this is going on let's not forget the
heat hotter days meant higher fire risk
especially in drought prone areas
this extra heat expands the ocean and
also melts the polar icecaps
ice sheets and glaciers sea levels rise
increasing the risk of coastal flooding
the dice are now loaded towards more
extreme weather and you know what that
means for Australians
we've lost homes ecosystems livelihoods
and loved ones
and the damage is likely to get worse
so what can we do we need to prepare to
live in a world with more intense
extreme weather this is the critical
decade to shape the world we live in and
stabilize our climate protecting our
children and grandchildren and we are
the critical people find out more
climate commission dr. dot au